feat(experimental): option to disable the module runner (#9210)
vitest-dev/vitest: docs/config/experimental.md

::: warning
This means that Vitest requires at least Node 22.15 for those features to work. At the moment, they also do not work in Deno or Bun.
:::

This could affect performance because Vitest needs to read the file and process it. If you do not use these features, you can disable the transforms by setting `experimental.nodeLoader` to `false`. Vitest only reads test files and setup files while looking for `vi.mock` or `vi.hoisted`. Using these in other files won't hoist them to the top of the file and can lead to unexpected behavior.

Some features will not work due to the nature of `viteModuleRunner`, including:

- no `import.meta.env`: `import.meta.env` is a Vite feature, use `process.env` instead
- no `plugins`: plugins are not applied because there is no transformation phase
- no `alias`: aliases are not applied because there is no transformation phase

With regards to mocking, it is also important to point out that ES modules do not support property override. This means that code like this won't work anymore:

```ts
import * as module from './some-module.js'
import { vi } from 'vitest'

vi.spyOn(module, 'function').mockImplementation(() => 42)

> ```

Reviewer: Let's use something else than `module` and `function` as names to avoid conflicting with reserved keywords:

````suggestion
```ts
import * as someModule from './some-module.js'
import { vi } from 'vitest'

vi.spyOn(someModule, 'someFunction').mockImplementation(() => 42)
```
````

However, Vitest supports auto-spying on modules without overriding their implementation. When `vi.mock` is called with a `spy: true` argument, the module is mocked in a way that preserves original implementations, but all exported functions are wrapped in a `vi.fn()` spy:

```ts
import * as module from './some-module.js'
import { vi } from 'vitest'

vi.mock('./some-module.js', { spy: true })

module.function.mockImplementation(() => 42)
```

> Factory mocking is implemented using a top-level await. This means that mocked modules cannot be `required` in your source code:

Reviewer: Consider:

```suggestion
Factory mocking is implemented using a top-level await. This means that mocked modules cannot be loaded with `require()` in your source code:
```
